The Joe Rogan experience, but it's like times have changed.
You can put your mad.
At you for something you did when you were little, which is funny.
That's one of the things that's going on now is people are retroactively getting
canceled for things.
Yeah. Like they did when they were kids. It's ridiculous. I mean, it's like,
everything's a permanent stain on, on you. There's no growth.
You can't become a better person.
Like what's,
what's what is the desire that people have to do that? Like,
where's that coming.
From? Well, you know, there's, there's two ways we could talk about it.
We could talk about the psychological side of it,
which is like a moral purity thing that's going bonkers.
Or we could talk about it in terms of the, the ideas,
the theory that's fueling this. And that's all about, um,
that has this idea, that, that comes from French philosophy, that,
that words and ideas and thoughts and patterns have traces that don't ever
really go away. And so if something, you know,
used to be associated with something bad and we still use the word,
or even if you pretend that it was the case, uh, and you still use the word,
then it carries this negative trace.
So the moral panic and the psychology side of it's fueled by this kind of like
stupid idea,
that words always have to mean kind of what they meant in the first.
Place. Well aware of that though, is it, I mean,
is this just conveniently connected to it or conveniently similar? I mean,
you think that people are actually aware of this concept?
I don't think they, I don't think most people do. Like,
there's just so you know, we're, we're generally talking about this,
whatever woke thing that's happening. Right.
And so you gotta think of woke kind of like, kind of like a church, right?
Like you got, like, I grew up Catholic, so it's like,
you got cultural Catholics.
Like they kind of go to church and maybe they go to confession sometimes and
they don't really do, they do it, but they don't really do it.
And then you have like, the hardcore is like,
I had a friend in high school that like took notes at church. Oh, right.
I'm like serial.
Killer. Yeah. It's like, you do what you, you take notes.
And then, you know,
you've got the pastor and he obviously studies it or the priest in a Catholic
context and they study it and then you've got the theologians that really study
it. And so the stuff I'm talking about is like theology level.
Like that's like the scholars and then your average person just wants to feel
like a good person.
So you've got like the woke academics, like the seriously,
the woke people that are teaching it to kids. Yeah.
That really teach it as like critical theory, like critical race theory.
That's right. Yeah. So those,
those are the ones that are probably aware of all the nonsense.
Th they're they're making the nonsense. Actually.
I think they pick some of it up from culture, you know,
from activist groups or whatever,
but then they refine it and turn it into something. And it, you know,
it has this really weird feeling to it.
Like you get the impression that it's like the wrestling with their inner demons
and then they're like writing it down.
Like it like th this book now white fragility, right. Robin D'Angelo's book,
white fragility.
The MADtv destroyed. Yeah, yeah, yeah. God for MADtv Sanka,
baby Jesus. And.
That's right. It's so good though. Um, because he's right.
He's actually right about it. So if you read the book,
there's all these weird vignettes that she tells these stories she's oh,
I went to this potluck for work and, um, I'm walking around,
I walk up and then I see there's two parties and we're at the park and there's
two groups of people. One of them is all black and one of them's not.
And I had this moment of panic that I might have to be in the all-black group.
And it's like, lady, what's going on. You know? And then it's like,
all white people are racist is like our conclusion from this. And it's like,
maybe it's you.
She,
so she had this panic that she was going to have to party at the park with black
people. And she was worried that she was racist because of that.
And therefore all white people are raised.
See, that's what I'm thinking is going on. Right. So I'm thinking,
I've thought this role a number of years is that a lot of this stuff where you
get these like woke activists, doing their blogs,
are these scholars writing this stuff down is that they're looking at their own
lives. So you have these people that are like, they're walking down the street,
you know, maybe whatever they walk into the hotel,
they walked into the restaurant and they're like, I saw a black guy.
And then it's like, I'm not supposed to notice that.
And then he started having like this thing in their head,
and then they go write an angry blog about terrible racism is because they're
wrestling with it themselves. It's like Sigmund Freud. Right.
He had that whole idea, um, that everybody wants to have sex with their mothers.
And like, your psychology is all how you resolve that problem. And it's like,
maybe you just wanted to have sex with your mother Sigmund Freud, you know?
And then now it's, everybody's a racist is,
is kind of the vibe of the new thing.
And there's like this weird religious kind of thing happening around it.
That's really the thing that gets me is how similar this is to religious or
religion, not just really religious ideology, like how rigid it is,
but also indoctrination like religious cults, how they indoctrinate people.
And one of my friends, Kurt, Medsker really funny guy who, um,
was a Jehovah's witness when he was younger. And so he's really, really,
really sensitive to this stuff. He's like, I know where this is going. Yep.
Like this is the same thing that I got when I was in the Jehovah's witness cult.
It's these rigid ideologies that cannot be challenged.
You can't in any way veer from, of course, that's right.
And they set you up. Right. So every single,
single one of these things sets you up. So for example,
uh, one of my favorite examples of these kind of like setups, right.
It historically in the book I talk about, um, historically, you know,
the black feminist came along and they're like, oh,
feminism's too white feminism.
Isn't paying attention to black feminist issues or black women's issues.
And so then these feminists were like, oh, we have to fix that. You know?
And they start writing about black issues to the best of their ability.
And then three years later, the lady writes a paper saying, oh,
you're just sticking black things in and it's fake and you're tokenizing it and
you're fetishizing it. And it's like, so you can't do it. Right. There's that,
that is called the indoctrination stuff. So it's like, you and I could be,
you know, talking about something like this,
and you could say something and I'm like,
don't you think it's a little bit racist. And then the next step is like,
what are you going to say? You're going to say yes or no. If you say yes,
and now you've owned it. Right. So now you're like racist. And so I'm like,
well, do you interrogate your racism? Like, do you spend time working on that?
And so you see sure you're dragging people into it. If you say, no, I can say,
well, one of the symptoms of participation in,
in systemic racism is, is an inability to see it. If you're white,
it's invisible to you.
And so maybe you need to look harder when it seems like you're getting a little
defensive and panic and then you start panicking. And when you start to panic,
when you start to stress out, they're like,
and literally this lady emailed me the other day, this, this Indian woman,
I get a lot. I get insane. Number of emails about.
People, India. No, no. From Canada. Oh,
but everyone didn't say number of emails from people.
Who are in different, different, like, uh,
levels of stress with different things that are happening in their lives around
this woke explosion that's happened in the last month or so.
So this lady is like, I had to go through a brown fragility training at work.
What brown fragilities of St.
Even black now it's, they're working their way down to brown people.
Brown people have for jobs, those poor people.
So people who racially were sort of like Switzerland,
like Indians, like in India,
like no one ever thought they were racist. Right. You never,
you would never hear about racist Indians. Right.
Maybe Russell Peters would joke around about it. Right. You know, Russell. Yeah.
Yeah.
Now you hear about it. And what they're doing is that they had that.
What happened was they explained to the ladies or not the lady that was like the
whole group, it was a done in a room, you know, in front of a bunch of people.
And they explained, uh, brown people in general,
like it's some kind of block of brownness or whatever. Uh,
brown people have anti-black racism too. And that upholds white supremacy.
Oh my God. And then they start just doing this.
And it's almost like cold reading. Right. You know, like the Edwards guy,
whatever that guy's name was had that show.
And so it's like the cold read and they wait for somebody to start looking like
they're getting the sweat or something happened. And then they say,
now what we need to do now that we've introduced this idea of,
of your brown fragility is we need to your anti-blackness.
Cause we need to interrogate the feelings that came up and suddenly go one by
one through the room and made every single one of them confess their feelings.
Like who's not going to participate.
And here's that double bind because it gets to you. Right.
And so what do you say? You say, well,
I don't really know what you're talking about. Well.
They're going to say you're hearing it. Exactly.
And then if you confess to it, then, then you're falling in.
So this is straight up cult indoctrination style. Yeah. It really.
Is like those people and game of Thrones, you remember that those,
those people that almost like took over the crown and kidnapped Searcy, that,
that it is. Yeah.
It's like that sort of pattern for whatever reason just seems to
reoccur with humans.
You know?
And I think it comes down to our natural religious impulses that I think,
I mean, you know, pretty well from my background, you know,
I don't believe in God, I'm an atheist and dare you. Oh, well, you know,
we get along. And so it's like,
I still do think that we have certain impulses underneath that lead people to
build religious structures around themselves and have religious, you know,
thoughts and feelings and want to have spiritual development and all of this.
And so religions can kind of do one of two things. You know,
I used to be kind of hard about religion and like tough, like, you know, uh,
angry atheist kind of picture,
but I've thought about it more and which you're not allowed to think about
things and change your mind now. But I did. And um,
what I realized is that some religions look up,
they're like looking at God and they're afraid of sin,
but they they're paying attention to God. They're thinking about renewal.
They're thinking about redemption. They're thinking about forgiveness.
And then some religions look down and all they do is look at the sin and they
focus on the sin. And that's where the witch hunts came from.
That was when the Calvinists got like, you know, fire and brimstone,
Jonathan Edwards, screaming, you know, sinners in the hands of an angry God,
you're hanging on a spider's thread above the fires of hell and God knock you
into it. Cause everybody's full of sin. Next thing you know,
they're killing witches. So it's like, you start focus. If you look up,
you know, then religion can be great. It can actually lead people,
even if they spiritual development community. So on. But if you're looking down,
you're going to start obsessing about everybody.
If you're obsessing about Sandy,
you're going to start obsessing about everybody. Else's sin to, uh,
cause you're going to want to like, does this feeling with, again,
reading Robin D'Angelo's white fragility, is this feeling like, uh,
that she doesn't want to feel alone?
Like she has these struggles and she doesn't want to be alone.
So she's a white lady. Oh yeah. Robin,
DeAngelo's a white lady who goes in and for like $12,000 a pop does these
corporate seminars? Yeah. 12, 12 grand for two hours. And teaches,
she goes into tells white people that they're racist and then like interrogates
their feelings when they, when they get defensive about it. Oh my goodness.
It's like the biggest corporate corporate training hustle ever.
And her idea of white fragility, you can't disagree with it.
There's no way to disagree.
I've absolutely like rammed it on some people on Twitter where these walkies
that come and try to trash me. And I just say, you know,
that looks a little bit like white fragility.
And I give some reason that's kind of out of the literature.
And then they were like, I can't have white fragility, you know, I'm whatever.
And it's like, oh, that's definitely, you're getting defensive.
Defensive is one of the symptoms of white fragility.
You just wanted to know your complicity and the system of racism that you
benefit from. And then it's just like,
you can't get away from it because the end kind.
Of language, like what you just said is like, it, like, that's like checkmate.